
=== Output of 'conf2hires --help' ===


conf2hires
  --s subject
  --t2, --no-t2 (default 0)
  --mm-norm-sigma sigma : smoothing level for T2 mri_normalize (8)
  --flair, --no-flair (default 0)
  --threads nthreads 
  --copy-bias-from-conf : copy bias field from conformed instead of computing directly
  --norm-opts-rca : compute bias directly using recon-all opts to mri_normalize
  --cubic, --trilin (default trilin), only applies with --copy-bias-from-conf
  --dev, --no-dev (default 0) : use mris_make_surfaces.dev
      default value can be set with setenv CONF2HIRES_USEDEV
  --bbr-con contype : set BBR contrast type (default t2)
  --bbr-t1 : set BBR contrast type to t1
  --bbr-t2 : set BBR contrast type to t2
  --first-peak-d1 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --first-peak-d2 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --stopmask stopmaskscm
  --expert xopts (or -expert)
  --force-update

conf2hires 7.4.1

This is a script that places the surfaces on highres T1 (and maybe T2)
volumes based on an initial placement on a conformed volume. The idea
is that recon-all will be run up to and including the creation of
white.preaparc. This script is then run to generate the final white
and pial surfaces. After that, the final stages of recon-all can be
run (making sure to skip the creation of the final white and pial
surfaces). The recon-all.v6.hires script will do this automatically.

The pial surface tends to extend further out than in the normal
recon-all stream because the intensity normalization. mri_normalize is
run with different parameters (unless --norm-opts-rca is used) but
will also run differently because some of the parameters are set based
on the number of voxels, so differences in resolution effectively
cause these parameters to be different. The --copy-bias-from-conf
option will cause conf2hires to use the bias field computed from the
conformed (1mm) and makes the final surfaces much closer to that of
recon-all. I cannot remember why I did not use this as the default
except that the current set up might have worked better for HCP.






=== Output of 'conf2hires -help' ===


conf2hires
  --s subject
  --t2, --no-t2 (default 0)
  --mm-norm-sigma sigma : smoothing level for T2 mri_normalize (8)
  --flair, --no-flair (default 0)
  --threads nthreads 
  --copy-bias-from-conf : copy bias field from conformed instead of computing directly
  --norm-opts-rca : compute bias directly using recon-all opts to mri_normalize
  --cubic, --trilin (default trilin), only applies with --copy-bias-from-conf
  --dev, --no-dev (default 0) : use mris_make_surfaces.dev
      default value can be set with setenv CONF2HIRES_USEDEV
  --bbr-con contype : set BBR contrast type (default t2)
  --bbr-t1 : set BBR contrast type to t1
  --bbr-t2 : set BBR contrast type to t2
  --first-peak-d1 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --first-peak-d2 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --stopmask stopmaskscm
  --expert xopts (or -expert)
  --force-update

conf2hires 7.4.1

This is a script that places the surfaces on highres T1 (and maybe T2)
volumes based on an initial placement on a conformed volume. The idea
is that recon-all will be run up to and including the creation of
white.preaparc. This script is then run to generate the final white
and pial surfaces. After that, the final stages of recon-all can be
run (making sure to skip the creation of the final white and pial
surfaces). The recon-all.v6.hires script will do this automatically.

The pial surface tends to extend further out than in the normal
recon-all stream because the intensity normalization. mri_normalize is
run with different parameters (unless --norm-opts-rca is used) but
will also run differently because some of the parameters are set based
on the number of voxels, so differences in resolution effectively
cause these parameters to be different. The --copy-bias-from-conf
option will cause conf2hires to use the bias field computed from the
conformed (1mm) and makes the final surfaces much closer to that of
recon-all. I cannot remember why I did not use this as the default
except that the current set up might have worked better for HCP.






=== Output of 'conf2hires' (no arguments) ===


conf2hires
  --s subject
  --t2, --no-t2 (default 0)
  --mm-norm-sigma sigma : smoothing level for T2 mri_normalize (8)
  --flair, --no-flair (default 0)
  --threads nthreads 
  --copy-bias-from-conf : copy bias field from conformed instead of computing directly
  --norm-opts-rca : compute bias directly using recon-all opts to mri_normalize
  --cubic, --trilin (default trilin), only applies with --copy-bias-from-conf
  --dev, --no-dev (default 0) : use mris_make_surfaces.dev
      default value can be set with setenv CONF2HIRES_USEDEV
  --bbr-con contype : set BBR contrast type (default t2)
  --bbr-t1 : set BBR contrast type to t1
  --bbr-t2 : set BBR contrast type to t2
  --first-peak-d1 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --first-peak-d2 : refine surface targets in MRIScomputeBorderValues()
  --stopmask stopmaskscm
  --expert xopts (or -expert)
  --force-update

