
=== Output of 'fsdcmdecompress --help' ===


fsdcmdecompress --help
  --i indcmfile --o outdcmfile
  --dcmtk : use either dcmdrle.fs or dcmdjpeg.fs
  --jpeg : DICOM is JPEG compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --rle  : DICOM is RLE compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --gdcm : use gdcmconv.fs (default)

fsdcmdecompress 7.4.1

This is a frontend script for decompressing DICOM files using either
GDCM http://gdcm.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Gdcmconv or DCMTK
http://dicom.offis.de/dcmtk. The original purpose is to call this
script from a C binary using a system() call to create a decompressed
file that the binary can then use the standard FreeSurfer libraries to
read. There are several ways this utility can be used depending upon
the converter and whether the input file is RLE or JPEG compressed.

By default, gdcmconv is used. This utility figures out for itself
whether a file is RLE or JPEG compressed. It seems to work in more
cases than the DCMTK routines. In this case, --jpeg and --rle have 
no effect. 

The use of DCMTK routines can be specfied in one of two ways. First,
one can add --dcmtk. Second, one can specify

  setenv FS_DCM_DECOMPRESS DCMTK

before running the script. In this way, the script can be controlled
by simply setting an environment variable without needing to create a
new binary. Remember that if DCMTK is used, then one must specify
--jpeg or --rle. In the C code (DICOMRead.c), one of these will always
be added to the command line, but they will not have an effect unless
DCMTK is used.

=== Output of 'fsdcmdecompress -help' ===


fsdcmdecompress --help
  --i indcmfile --o outdcmfile
  --dcmtk : use either dcmdrle.fs or dcmdjpeg.fs
  --jpeg : DICOM is JPEG compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --rle  : DICOM is RLE compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --gdcm : use gdcmconv.fs (default)

fsdcmdecompress 7.4.1

This is a frontend script for decompressing DICOM files using either
GDCM http://gdcm.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Gdcmconv or DCMTK
http://dicom.offis.de/dcmtk. The original purpose is to call this
script from a C binary using a system() call to create a decompressed
file that the binary can then use the standard FreeSurfer libraries to
read. There are several ways this utility can be used depending upon
the converter and whether the input file is RLE or JPEG compressed.

By default, gdcmconv is used. This utility figures out for itself
whether a file is RLE or JPEG compressed. It seems to work in more
cases than the DCMTK routines. In this case, --jpeg and --rle have 
no effect. 

The use of DCMTK routines can be specfied in one of two ways. First,
one can add --dcmtk. Second, one can specify

  setenv FS_DCM_DECOMPRESS DCMTK

before running the script. In this way, the script can be controlled
by simply setting an environment variable without needing to create a
new binary. Remember that if DCMTK is used, then one must specify
--jpeg or --rle. In the C code (DICOMRead.c), one of these will always
be added to the command line, but they will not have an effect unless
DCMTK is used.

=== Output of 'fsdcmdecompress' (no arguments) ===


fsdcmdecompress --help
  --i indcmfile --o outdcmfile
  --dcmtk : use either dcmdrle.fs or dcmdjpeg.fs
  --jpeg : DICOM is JPEG compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --rle  : DICOM is RLE compressed, ignored without --dcmtk
  --gdcm : use gdcmconv.fs (default)

