
=== Output of 'fsl_rigid_register --help' ===


USAGE: fsl_rigid_register

Required Arguments:
   -r refvol    : reference/target volume
   -i inputvol  : input/moveable volume
   -o outputvol : input resampled to reference

Optional Arguments
   -fslmat fsmatfile  : spec explicitly
   -regmat regmatfile : get reg matrix as register.dat file
   -xfmmat xfmmatfile :  get reg matrix as MNI xfm file
   -ltamat ltamatfile :  get reg matrix as MGH lta file
   -noinitgeom : do not initialize matrix based on geometry
   -applyxfm xfmfile : do not reg, just apply xfm to input
   -applyinitxfm     : do not reg, just apply init xfm to input
   -initxfm  xfmfile : use this as an initial matrix (instead of geom)
   -maxangle maxangle : only search over +/- maxangle degrees
   -interp method : <trilinear>, nearestneighbour, sinc
   -dof dof : use dof instead of 6
   -bins bins : number of bins to use (default 256)
   -cost cost : objective function (default corratio)
      valid costs are mutualinfo corratio normcorr normmi leastsq
   -tmp  tmpdir (default is ). Implies -nocleanup
   -tmpdir  tmpdir : same as -tmp
   -nocleanup  : do not delete temporary files
   -cleanup  : delete temporary files (default)
   -subject subject  : only puts it in the register.dat file

   -version : print version and exit
   -help    : print help and exit


This is a front-end for the FSL (www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/index.html)
flirt program. Computes the registration matrix that transforms
inputvol to refvol and resamples inputvol to outputvol using that
matrix. The matrix is stored in outputvol.fslmat. The registration is
constrained to be rigid (ie, 6 dof). The input and ref volumes are
automatically converted to analyze, and the output volume is
automatically converted from analyze to the output format. Note: if
using COR as output, the COR directory must exist prior to running
this script. The FLIRT/FSL registration matrix will be stored in
outvol.fslmat (unless -fslmat).

By default, an init FSL registration matrix is computed from the
geometry information in the header ref and input headers. This is a
good idea because the anlyze format does not keep the direction cosine
info around.

-fslmat fslmatfile

Store the FSL registration matrix in fslmatfile instead of outvol.fslmat

-regmat regmatfile

Convert the FSL matrix to register.dat format and save in regmatfile. You
will have to edit the subject name.

-ltamat ltamatfile

Convert the FSL matrix to an MGH lta file.

-noinitgeom

Do not compute init registration matrix from geometry.

-initxfm fslmatfile

Use matrix in fslmatfile as the initial registation matrix. If no
initialization is specified, the identity is assumed. Forces
-noinitgeom.

-maxangle maxangle

Search only +/- maxangle degrees around the initial starting
point. Default is 90.

-applyxfm

When the -applyxfm flag is is used, the input is resampled to the
output using the FSL mat file supplied as the argument to the
-applyxfm.  The ref volume is still needed in order to get the proper
geometry for the output file. Forces -noinitgeom.

-dof dof

Non-rigid registration can be performed by changing the dof from 6.


BUGS:

If using COR as output, the COR directory must exist prior to running
this script.


=== Output of 'fsl_rigid_register -help' ===


USAGE: fsl_rigid_register

Required Arguments:
   -r refvol    : reference/target volume
   -i inputvol  : input/moveable volume
   -o outputvol : input resampled to reference

Optional Arguments
   -fslmat fsmatfile  : spec explicitly
   -regmat regmatfile : get reg matrix as register.dat file
   -xfmmat xfmmatfile :  get reg matrix as MNI xfm file
   -ltamat ltamatfile :  get reg matrix as MGH lta file
   -noinitgeom : do not initialize matrix based on geometry
   -applyxfm xfmfile : do not reg, just apply xfm to input
   -applyinitxfm     : do not reg, just apply init xfm to input
   -initxfm  xfmfile : use this as an initial matrix (instead of geom)
   -maxangle maxangle : only search over +/- maxangle degrees
   -interp method : <trilinear>, nearestneighbour, sinc
   -dof dof : use dof instead of 6
   -bins bins : number of bins to use (default 256)
   -cost cost : objective function (default corratio)
      valid costs are mutualinfo corratio normcorr normmi leastsq
   -tmp  tmpdir (default is ). Implies -nocleanup
   -tmpdir  tmpdir : same as -tmp
   -nocleanup  : do not delete temporary files
   -cleanup  : delete temporary files (default)
   -subject subject  : only puts it in the register.dat file

   -version : print version and exit
   -help    : print help and exit


This is a front-end for the FSL (www.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/index.html)
flirt program. Computes the registration matrix that transforms
inputvol to refvol and resamples inputvol to outputvol using that
matrix. The matrix is stored in outputvol.fslmat. The registration is
constrained to be rigid (ie, 6 dof). The input and ref volumes are
automatically converted to analyze, and the output volume is
automatically converted from analyze to the output format. Note: if
using COR as output, the COR directory must exist prior to running
this script. The FLIRT/FSL registration matrix will be stored in
outvol.fslmat (unless -fslmat).

By default, an init FSL registration matrix is computed from the
geometry information in the header ref and input headers. This is a
good idea because the anlyze format does not keep the direction cosine
info around.

-fslmat fslmatfile

Store the FSL registration matrix in fslmatfile instead of outvol.fslmat

-regmat regmatfile

Convert the FSL matrix to register.dat format and save in regmatfile. You
will have to edit the subject name.

-ltamat ltamatfile

Convert the FSL matrix to an MGH lta file.

-noinitgeom

Do not compute init registration matrix from geometry.

-initxfm fslmatfile

Use matrix in fslmatfile as the initial registation matrix. If no
initialization is specified, the identity is assumed. Forces
-noinitgeom.

-maxangle maxangle

Search only +/- maxangle degrees around the initial starting
point. Default is 90.

-applyxfm

When the -applyxfm flag is is used, the input is resampled to the
output using the FSL mat file supplied as the argument to the
-applyxfm.  The ref volume is still needed in order to get the proper
geometry for the output file. Forces -noinitgeom.

-dof dof

Non-rigid registration can be performed by changing the dof from 6.


BUGS:

If using COR as output, the COR directory must exist prior to running
this script.


=== Output of 'fsl_rigid_register' (no arguments) ===


USAGE: fsl_rigid_register

Required Arguments:
   -r refvol    : reference/target volume
   -i inputvol  : input/moveable volume
   -o outputvol : input resampled to reference

Optional Arguments
   -fslmat fsmatfile  : spec explicitly
   -regmat regmatfile : get reg matrix as register.dat file
   -xfmmat xfmmatfile :  get reg matrix as MNI xfm file
   -ltamat ltamatfile :  get reg matrix as MGH lta file
   -noinitgeom : do not initialize matrix based on geometry
   -applyxfm xfmfile : do not reg, just apply xfm to input
   -applyinitxfm     : do not reg, just apply init xfm to input
   -initxfm  xfmfile : use this as an initial matrix (instead of geom)
   -maxangle maxangle : only search over +/- maxangle degrees
   -interp method : <trilinear>, nearestneighbour, sinc
   -dof dof : use dof instead of 6
   -bins bins : number of bins to use (default 256)
   -cost cost : objective function (default corratio)
      valid costs are mutualinfo corratio normcorr normmi leastsq
   -tmp  tmpdir (default is ). Implies -nocleanup
   -tmpdir  tmpdir : same as -tmp
   -nocleanup  : do not delete temporary files
   -cleanup  : delete temporary files (default)
   -subject subject  : only puts it in the register.dat file

   -version : print version and exit
   -help    : print help and exit

