
=== Output of 'groupstatsdiff --help' ===


groupstatsdiff 
  --g1 group1dir : output folder from groupstats
  --g2 group2dir : output folder from groupstats
  --o output : output folder for difference
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --osgm : use OSGM instead of native FSGD
  --no-common : do not select common segs when running stattablediff
  --allow-subj-diff : allow list of subjects to be different between the two
  --no-area : do not compute area diffs
  --no-volume : do not compute volume diffs
  --no-ba : do not compute diffs for BA labels
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --no-prune : do not prune when running mri_glmfit (may be nec if g1=g2)
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm> : override the fwhm from group ana (must be present)
  --sd1 sd1, --sd2 sd2 : subjects dirs for computing dice (default is parent dir of groupdir)
  --no-dice : do not compute dice
  --dice-ctab ctab : ctab to use for dice (default is /usr/local/freesurfer/ASegStatsLUT.txt)
  
groupstatsdiff 7.4.1

This is a script run on two outputs of groupstats with the intention
of evaluating the differences between two different recon-all analyses
(eg, two versions of FS, same version but different platforms, same
version but different parameters). The groupstats script is run
separately on each of the analyses, storing the output in group1dir
and group2dir which are then passed to this script.

This script can be run in two different modes, either with --osgm
(one-sample-group-mean) or without in which case it will use the FSGD
file from the groupstats run. If groupstats was run with OSGM, then
these two are the same. Use OSGM when simply looking at the difference
between the two analyses. Use the native FSGD when look at whether
there is an interaction between effect of interest (eg, age) and the 
two analyses.

One can then evaluate the differences with something like

tksurfer fsaverage lh inflated -aparc \
   -ov diffdir/maps/glm.thickness.lh.sm10/osgm/sig.mgh \
   -t diffdir/maps/diff.thickness.lh.sm10.mgh

The map will indicate OSGM differences and the "time" course will show
the paired differences in each subject. If you want to dig deeper into
a particular subject, then try using fvcompare.

Other maps that can be examined are: thickness, area, volume.



=== Output of 'groupstatsdiff -help' ===


groupstatsdiff 
  --g1 group1dir : output folder from groupstats
  --g2 group2dir : output folder from groupstats
  --o output : output folder for difference
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --osgm : use OSGM instead of native FSGD
  --no-common : do not select common segs when running stattablediff
  --allow-subj-diff : allow list of subjects to be different between the two
  --no-area : do not compute area diffs
  --no-volume : do not compute volume diffs
  --no-ba : do not compute diffs for BA labels
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --no-prune : do not prune when running mri_glmfit (may be nec if g1=g2)
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm> : override the fwhm from group ana (must be present)
  --sd1 sd1, --sd2 sd2 : subjects dirs for computing dice (default is parent dir of groupdir)
  --no-dice : do not compute dice
  --dice-ctab ctab : ctab to use for dice (default is /usr/local/freesurfer/ASegStatsLUT.txt)
  
groupstatsdiff 7.4.1

This is a script run on two outputs of groupstats with the intention
of evaluating the differences between two different recon-all analyses
(eg, two versions of FS, same version but different platforms, same
version but different parameters). The groupstats script is run
separately on each of the analyses, storing the output in group1dir
and group2dir which are then passed to this script.

This script can be run in two different modes, either with --osgm
(one-sample-group-mean) or without in which case it will use the FSGD
file from the groupstats run. If groupstats was run with OSGM, then
these two are the same. Use OSGM when simply looking at the difference
between the two analyses. Use the native FSGD when look at whether
there is an interaction between effect of interest (eg, age) and the 
two analyses.

One can then evaluate the differences with something like

tksurfer fsaverage lh inflated -aparc \
   -ov diffdir/maps/glm.thickness.lh.sm10/osgm/sig.mgh \
   -t diffdir/maps/diff.thickness.lh.sm10.mgh

The map will indicate OSGM differences and the "time" course will show
the paired differences in each subject. If you want to dig deeper into
a particular subject, then try using fvcompare.

Other maps that can be examined are: thickness, area, volume.



=== Output of 'groupstatsdiff' (no arguments) ===


groupstatsdiff 
  --g1 group1dir : output folder from groupstats
  --g2 group2dir : output folder from groupstats
  --o output : output folder for difference
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --osgm : use OSGM instead of native FSGD
  --no-common : do not select common segs when running stattablediff
  --allow-subj-diff : allow list of subjects to be different between the two
  --no-area : do not compute area diffs
  --no-volume : do not compute volume diffs
  --no-ba : do not compute diffs for BA labels
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --no-prune : do not prune when running mri_glmfit (may be nec if g1=g2)
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm> : override the fwhm from group ana (must be present)
  --sd1 sd1, --sd2 sd2 : subjects dirs for computing dice (default is parent dir of groupdir)
  --no-dice : do not compute dice
  --dice-ctab ctab : ctab to use for dice (default is /usr/local/freesurfer/ASegStatsLUT.txt)
  
