
=== Output of 'groupstats --help' ===


groupstats --help
  --o outdir : output folder
  --fsgd group.fsgd   OR   --f subjectfile
     if both are specified, gets subjects from subjectsfile
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm2> : specify smoothing level(s)
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --lh : only analyze lh
  --rh : only analyze rh
  --sd SUBJECTS_DIR
  --m map : use given mapname 
  --srcsurfreg SrcSurfReg (default is sphere.reg)
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --new : append .new.mris_make_surfaces to map names
  --base : sets meas thickness area volume curv sulc (excludes w-g.pct)
  --keep53 : keep 5.3 aseg names (eg, Thalamus-Proper)
  
groupstats 7.4.1

This is a script that runs a comprehensive group analysis on both maps
and ROI results.  This script was originally designed to assist in the
testing of FreeSurfer output (in conjunction with groupstatsdiff), so
there are a lot of tests performed, more than one would normally do
for a typical study. However, it is possible to use this to do almost
all of your group analysis as it runs mris_preproc for the maps and
asegstats2table/aparcstats2table for the ROIs and then mri_glmfit for
both.

Specify the subjects through an FSGD file (--fsgd) or a subject list
file (--f) but not both. If a subject list file is specified, a
one-sample-group-mean (OSGM) test will be performed. If an FSGD file
is passed, it must have a "Contrast" line. Eg, if there are two
groups, AD and HC, then add "Contrast ad-hc 1 -1" will compute the
contrast between them. This is an alternative to using a contrast
matrix in mri_glmfit.

You can choose multiple smoothing levels with multiple --fwhm
arguments.

If the intent is to eventually use groupstatsdiff to test for a
difference in FS versions (or some other difference), then make sure
that the subject names are the same across versions.


=== Output of 'groupstats -help' ===


groupstats --help
  --o outdir : output folder
  --fsgd group.fsgd   OR   --f subjectfile
     if both are specified, gets subjects from subjectsfile
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm2> : specify smoothing level(s)
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --lh : only analyze lh
  --rh : only analyze rh
  --sd SUBJECTS_DIR
  --m map : use given mapname 
  --srcsurfreg SrcSurfReg (default is sphere.reg)
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --new : append .new.mris_make_surfaces to map names
  --base : sets meas thickness area volume curv sulc (excludes w-g.pct)
  --keep53 : keep 5.3 aseg names (eg, Thalamus-Proper)
  
groupstats 7.4.1

This is a script that runs a comprehensive group analysis on both maps
and ROI results.  This script was originally designed to assist in the
testing of FreeSurfer output (in conjunction with groupstatsdiff), so
there are a lot of tests performed, more than one would normally do
for a typical study. However, it is possible to use this to do almost
all of your group analysis as it runs mris_preproc for the maps and
asegstats2table/aparcstats2table for the ROIs and then mri_glmfit for
both.

Specify the subjects through an FSGD file (--fsgd) or a subject list
file (--f) but not both. If a subject list file is specified, a
one-sample-group-mean (OSGM) test will be performed. If an FSGD file
is passed, it must have a "Contrast" line. Eg, if there are two
groups, AD and HC, then add "Contrast ad-hc 1 -1" will compute the
contrast between them. This is an alternative to using a contrast
matrix in mri_glmfit.

You can choose multiple smoothing levels with multiple --fwhm
arguments.

If the intent is to eventually use groupstatsdiff to test for a
difference in FS versions (or some other difference), then make sure
that the subject names are the same across versions.


=== Output of 'groupstats' (no arguments) ===


groupstats --help
  --o outdir : output folder
  --fsgd group.fsgd   OR   --f subjectfile
     if both are specified, gets subjects from subjectsfile
  --fwhm fwhm <--fwhm fwhm2> : specify smoothing level(s)
  --no-maps : only analyze ROI data
  --lh : only analyze lh
  --rh : only analyze rh
  --sd SUBJECTS_DIR
  --m map : use given mapname 
  --srcsurfreg SrcSurfReg (default is sphere.reg)
  --no-aparcstats : do not do aparcstats
  --no-asegstats : do not do asegstats
  --no-wparcstats : do not do wmparcstats
  --no-stats : do not do any ROI stats
  --new : append .new.mris_make_surfaces to map names
  --base : sets meas thickness area volume curv sulc (excludes w-g.pct)
  --keep53 : keep 5.3 aseg names (eg, Thalamus-Proper)
  
