
=== Output of 'make_average_subject --help' ===


USAGE: make_average_subject

Required Arguments
   --subjects <subj1> <subj2> ... <subjN>
             : or declare subjects in SUBJECTS env var
   --fsgd fsgdfile : get subject list from fsgd
   --f subjectlistfile : put all subject names in a text file
   --out <average subject name>

Optional Arguments
   --sd-out sdout : put output under sdout instead of SUBJECTS_DIR
   --no-link : do not link back to the original SUBJECTS_DIR with --sd-out
   --sdir <SUBJECTS_DIR to use instead of the one in the env>
   --sd      : same as --sdir
   --ico <ico order> : change order of icosahedron (default=7)
   --xform <transform_fname>   : filename of transform file
   --surf-reg <surface name>   : alternative registration surface
                                 default: sphere.reg
   --no-surf : do not make average surfaces
   --no-vol  : do not make average volumes
   --force   : overwrite existing average subject data
   --keep-all-orig : concatenate all orig vols into mri/orig.all.mgz
   --no-symlink : do not use symbolic links with surfs (just copy files)
   --no-ribbon : do not create ribbon.mgz and aparc+aseg.mgz files
   --no-surf2surf : use old parametric surface mapping method (may give big faces at the poles)
   --rca-threads nthreads : number of threads to pass to recon-all

   --help    : short descriptive help
   --version : script version info
   --echo    : enable command echo, for debug
   --debug   : same as --echo

Version: make_average_subject 7.4.1

Creates average subject by averaging surfaces, curvatures, and volumes
from a set of subjects. The surface is a 7th order icosahedron
tesselation.  For surfaces, the XYZ coordinate of a vertex is computed
as the average talairach coordinate of that vertex in each subject. The
talairach coordinate is based on talairach.xfm (unless changed with
--xform), so the individual talairachs must be accurate for the final
coordinate to be meaningful. Note that even though talairach coordinates
are used for surfaces, all surface-based averaging is done using the
surface atlas (NOT talairach averaging!).

Calls make_average_surface and make_average_volume. See these programs
for specific help.

The subject list can be specified in one of three ways:
  (1) on the command-line with --subjects
  (2) through the SUBJECTS environment variable
  (3) specifying a FreeSurfer Group Descriptor (FSGD) file. The FSGD is
      used by freesurfer to specify designs for statistical analysis.
      See surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/docs/fsgdf.txt.

The output will be created in SUBJECTS_DIR/averagesubjectname unless
--topdir is specified. In this case, the data are stored in
topdir/averagesubjectname, and a link is created to
SUBJECTS_DIR/averagesubjectname. This can convenient when your
the disk that hosts your SUBJECTS_DIR starts to get full.

EXAMPLES

Example 1:

  make_average_subject --out avgsubject --subjects subj1 subj2 subj3 subj4

will create $SUBJECTS_DIR/avgsubject with average surfaces for orig,
white, pial, inflated for each hemi. It will also create average volumes
for orig, brain, and T1.  Notice that the '--out avgsubject' is merely
overriding the default output name 'average'.

Example 2:

  setenv SUBJECTS = (subj1 subj2 subj3 subj4)
  make_average_subject --out avgsubject

will do the same as Example 1.

Example 3: check that the average subject volume aligns with the
talairach subject:

  tkregisterfv --fstal --s avgsubject --mgz

Example 4: check that the average subject surfaces align with the
volume:

  tkmedit avgsubject orig.mgz lh.white

You should see that the surfaces more-or-less align with the folds.
Remember this is talairach, so the volume will be blurry.

SEE ALSO

make_average_volume, make_average_surface, recon-all, make_final_surfaces,
morph_subject

GETTING HELP

Run recon-all --help for extensive text on the reconstruction process.
Or, send email to freesurfer@nmr.mgh.harvard.edu
See also https://surfer.nmr.mgh.harvard.edu

=== Output of 'make_average_subject -help' ===

ERROR: /usr/local/freesurfer/subjects/ already exists, select a new average subject name
       or delete and rerun

=== Output of 'make_average_subject' (no arguments) ===


USAGE: make_average_subject

Required Arguments
   --subjects <subj1> <subj2> ... <subjN>
             : or declare subjects in SUBJECTS env var
   --fsgd fsgdfile : get subject list from fsgd
   --f subjectlistfile : put all subject names in a text file
   --out <average subject name>

Optional Arguments
   --sd-out sdout : put output under sdout instead of SUBJECTS_DIR
   --no-link : do not link back to the original SUBJECTS_DIR with --sd-out
   --sdir <SUBJECTS_DIR to use instead of the one in the env>
   --sd      : same as --sdir
   --ico <ico order> : change order of icosahedron (default=7)
   --xform <transform_fname>   : filename of transform file
   --surf-reg <surface name>   : alternative registration surface
                                 default: sphere.reg
   --no-surf : do not make average surfaces
   --no-vol  : do not make average volumes
   --force   : overwrite existing average subject data
   --keep-all-orig : concatenate all orig vols into mri/orig.all.mgz
   --no-symlink : do not use symbolic links with surfs (just copy files)
   --no-ribbon : do not create ribbon.mgz and aparc+aseg.mgz files
   --no-surf2surf : use old parametric surface mapping method (may give big faces at the poles)
   --rca-threads nthreads : number of threads to pass to recon-all

   --help    : short descriptive help
   --version : script version info
   --echo    : enable command echo, for debug
   --debug   : same as --echo

