
=== Output of 'make_folding_atlas --help' ===


make_folding_atlas (formerly make_iter_atlas)
  --f subjlistfile, --fsgd fsgdfile, --s subject1 --s subject2 
  --b output base (subject will be called base.iITERNO)
  --nmax nmax : maximum number of iterations
  --xhemi : do xhemi (sets hemilist to lh only, use --lhrh after if both are wanted)
  --init-surf-reg surf (default sphere.reg)
      Registration used to make template on first iteration
  --init-subject subject : create first atlas from subject instead
      of all subjects. Automatically uses sphere for init surf
  --no-annot-template : good for monkeys
  --lh, --rh : do left or right (default is both)
  --lhrh : do both left or right (default)
  --ico icoorder : default is 7
  --no-vol-on-last : do not run make_average_volume on the last iteration
  --vol : run make_average_volume on each iteration
  --init : use prev iter reg to init mris_register/surfreg instead 
      of ?h.sphere. This might speed things up, but could bias. Note: 
      this has nothing to do with --int-surf-reg or --init-subject
  --short-sleep : sleep for shorter time before polling
  --no-template-only : make avg surf files even with a single hemi or --no-vol
  --threads N 
  --account slurm-account : or set env variable FS_BATCH_ACCOUNT

make_folding_atlas 7.4.1

This is a script that iteratively creates a cortical folding atlas
(stored as a .tif file). A given tif is generated from the
registration to the previous tif. This procedure can take take a while
(eg, 12 iterations takes about 24 hours). The more iterations, the
more it converges. This automatically manages all of the bookkeeping
to create and register to iterative templates. It submits all the
registration jobs so they can run in parallel, waits until they are
all done, then generates the tif in an average subject folder.

Each iteration will yield an average subject folder (with tif and
other files in it); the name will be based on the --base arg. Both lh
and rh will be done and stored in the same average subject folder. If
you run with a given number of iterations and you want to do more
iterations, just submit the same command line with the new number of
iterations. It will see that the earlier iterations are done and start
with the next iteration (ie, it will not try to re-run all the
iterations you have already processed). This process can be used to
create average subjects like fsaverage and fsaverage_sym.

Because it submits the needed jobs, this script should NOT itself be
submitted. This should handle platforms that use either pbsubmit or
sbatch. For sbatch, you must set the FS_BATCH_ACCOUNT or pass the
account name with --account.

setenv SUBJECTS_DIR /autofs/cluster/freesurfer/subjects/atlases/aparc_atlas.V6
cd /autofs/cluster/freesurfer/subjects/atlases/aparc_atlas.V6/scripts
make_folding_atlas  --f subjlist.txt --b avgsubj.acfb40 --nmax 13 --no-annot --no-vol \
  --threads 2 --init-surf-reg sphere.average.curvature.filled.buckner40.reg

make_folding_atlas --f subjects.txt --b fsasym --nmax 17 --xhemi


=== Output of 'make_folding_atlas -help' ===


make_folding_atlas (formerly make_iter_atlas)
  --f subjlistfile, --fsgd fsgdfile, --s subject1 --s subject2 
  --b output base (subject will be called base.iITERNO)
  --nmax nmax : maximum number of iterations
  --xhemi : do xhemi (sets hemilist to lh only, use --lhrh after if both are wanted)
  --init-surf-reg surf (default sphere.reg)
      Registration used to make template on first iteration
  --init-subject subject : create first atlas from subject instead
      of all subjects. Automatically uses sphere for init surf
  --no-annot-template : good for monkeys
  --lh, --rh : do left or right (default is both)
  --lhrh : do both left or right (default)
  --ico icoorder : default is 7
  --no-vol-on-last : do not run make_average_volume on the last iteration
  --vol : run make_average_volume on each iteration
  --init : use prev iter reg to init mris_register/surfreg instead 
      of ?h.sphere. This might speed things up, but could bias. Note: 
      this has nothing to do with --int-surf-reg or --init-subject
  --short-sleep : sleep for shorter time before polling
  --no-template-only : make avg surf files even with a single hemi or --no-vol
  --threads N 
  --account slurm-account : or set env variable FS_BATCH_ACCOUNT

make_folding_atlas 7.4.1

This is a script that iteratively creates a cortical folding atlas
(stored as a .tif file). A given tif is generated from the
registration to the previous tif. This procedure can take take a while
(eg, 12 iterations takes about 24 hours). The more iterations, the
more it converges. This automatically manages all of the bookkeeping
to create and register to iterative templates. It submits all the
registration jobs so they can run in parallel, waits until they are
all done, then generates the tif in an average subject folder.

Each iteration will yield an average subject folder (with tif and
other files in it); the name will be based on the --base arg. Both lh
and rh will be done and stored in the same average subject folder. If
you run with a given number of iterations and you want to do more
iterations, just submit the same command line with the new number of
iterations. It will see that the earlier iterations are done and start
with the next iteration (ie, it will not try to re-run all the
iterations you have already processed). This process can be used to
create average subjects like fsaverage and fsaverage_sym.

Because it submits the needed jobs, this script should NOT itself be
submitted. This should handle platforms that use either pbsubmit or
sbatch. For sbatch, you must set the FS_BATCH_ACCOUNT or pass the
account name with --account.

setenv SUBJECTS_DIR /autofs/cluster/freesurfer/subjects/atlases/aparc_atlas.V6
cd /autofs/cluster/freesurfer/subjects/atlases/aparc_atlas.V6/scripts
make_folding_atlas  --f subjlist.txt --b avgsubj.acfb40 --nmax 13 --no-annot --no-vol \
  --threads 2 --init-surf-reg sphere.average.curvature.filled.buckner40.reg

make_folding_atlas --f subjects.txt --b fsasym --nmax 17 --xhemi


=== Output of 'make_folding_atlas' (no arguments) ===


make_folding_atlas (formerly make_iter_atlas)
  --f subjlistfile, --fsgd fsgdfile, --s subject1 --s subject2 
  --b output base (subject will be called base.iITERNO)
  --nmax nmax : maximum number of iterations
  --xhemi : do xhemi (sets hemilist to lh only, use --lhrh after if both are wanted)
  --init-surf-reg surf (default sphere.reg)
      Registration used to make template on first iteration
  --init-subject subject : create first atlas from subject instead
      of all subjects. Automatically uses sphere for init surf
  --no-annot-template : good for monkeys
  --lh, --rh : do left or right (default is both)
  --lhrh : do both left or right (default)
  --ico icoorder : default is 7
  --no-vol-on-last : do not run make_average_volume on the last iteration
  --vol : run make_average_volume on each iteration
  --init : use prev iter reg to init mris_register/surfreg instead 
      of ?h.sphere. This might speed things up, but could bias. Note: 
      this has nothing to do with --int-surf-reg or --init-subject
  --short-sleep : sleep for shorter time before polling
  --no-template-only : make avg surf files even with a single hemi or --no-vol
  --threads N 
  --account slurm-account : or set env variable FS_BATCH_ACCOUNT

