
=== Output of 'make-segvol-table --help' ===


USAGE: make-segvol-table

Required Arguments:
   -s  subj1 <-s subj2 ...>
   -sf subjfile : file with list of subjects>
   -o  outfile

Optional Arguments:
   -idmap fname : file with structure name and id number.
        Default is FREESURFER_HOME/tkmeditColorsCMA
   -id name1 <-id name2> : default is all
   -segdir subdirname : default is aseg
   -sd subjectsdir : default is SUBJECTS_DIR

Other Arguments (Optional)
   -umask umask   : set unix file permission mask
   -version       : print version and exit

   -help


make-segvol-table 7.4.1


Creates a table of volumes of subcortical structures for the given
list of subjects. Each row is a different structure, and each column
is a different subject. The first column gives the structure name, and
the first row gives the subject id. The list of subjects can be listed
directly on the command-line (with -s) or specified inside of a text
file (with -sf). The output table is a text file specified with -o.

By default, make-segvol-table gets the volume of each structure listed
in the FREESURFER_HOME/tkmeditColorsCMA from the mri/aseg volume in
each subject. The structure list file can be changed with -idmap. The
segmentation subdirectory can be changed from aseg with -segdir. A
subset of the structures can be obtained by explicitly listing each
structure name on the command-line with -id (the name must be present
in the idmap).

=== Output of 'make-segvol-table -help' ===


USAGE: make-segvol-table

Required Arguments:
   -s  subj1 <-s subj2 ...>
   -sf subjfile : file with list of subjects>
   -o  outfile

Optional Arguments:
   -idmap fname : file with structure name and id number.
        Default is FREESURFER_HOME/tkmeditColorsCMA
   -id name1 <-id name2> : default is all
   -segdir subdirname : default is aseg
   -sd subjectsdir : default is SUBJECTS_DIR

Other Arguments (Optional)
   -umask umask   : set unix file permission mask
   -version       : print version and exit

   -help


make-segvol-table 7.4.1


Creates a table of volumes of subcortical structures for the given
list of subjects. Each row is a different structure, and each column
is a different subject. The first column gives the structure name, and
the first row gives the subject id. The list of subjects can be listed
directly on the command-line (with -s) or specified inside of a text
file (with -sf). The output table is a text file specified with -o.

By default, make-segvol-table gets the volume of each structure listed
in the FREESURFER_HOME/tkmeditColorsCMA from the mri/aseg volume in
each subject. The structure list file can be changed with -idmap. The
segmentation subdirectory can be changed from aseg with -segdir. A
subset of the structures can be obtained by explicitly listing each
structure name on the command-line with -id (the name must be present
in the idmap).

=== Output of 'make-segvol-table' (no arguments) ===


USAGE: make-segvol-table

Required Arguments:
   -s  subj1 <-s subj2 ...>
   -sf subjfile : file with list of subjects>
   -o  outfile

Optional Arguments:
   -idmap fname : file with structure name and id number.
        Default is FREESURFER_HOME/tkmeditColorsCMA
   -id name1 <-id name2> : default is all
   -segdir subdirname : default is aseg
   -sd subjectsdir : default is SUBJECTS_DIR

Other Arguments (Optional)
   -umask umask   : set unix file permission mask
   -version       : print version and exit

   -help

