
=== Output of 'mris_surface_stats --help' ===

unknown option --help
Usage: /usr/local/freesurfer/bin/mris_surface_stats [options] <data1> ... <dataN>

This program computes the group-wise mean and std of the 
thickness differences at every vertex of the template surface.

Options include:

 -nsmooth %d     specify number of smoothing steps
 -surf_name %s   set the surface filename
 -mask_name %s   set the filename for surface mask 
 -out_name %s    set the output filename (std of data)
 -mean %s        set the output filename for mean
 -absmean %s     set the output filename for abs-mean
 -absstd %s      set the output filename for std-of-abs-mean 
 -zscore %s      set the output filename for zscore
                 (only if first_group_size > 0) 
 -first_group_size %d:   specify how many subjects in the 
                         beginning belong to first group 
 -src_type %s    input surface data format (default = paint) 
 -trg_type %s    output format (default = paint) 
 -debug %d       specify which surface vertex number to debug

Example:

  mris_surface_stats -mask some_mask.label \
    -nsmooth $N \
    -surf_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/1000/surf/${hemi}.white \
    -src_type paint \
    -out_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_std_${N}.mgh \
    -absmean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absmean_${N}.mgh \
    -mean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_mean_${N}.mgh \
    -absstd $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absstd_${N}.mgh \
    $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh

This command computes the mean and std of both the signed and 
unsigned thickness differences and outputs the results to 
different files as specified by the different options. The user 
can define the hemisphere ${hemi}$, and the number of smoothing
iterations $N applied to the input difference maps. The other 
options are:

 -mask  specifies a surface mask, where vertices within the 
 mask will be excluded in all the computation (smoothing and 
 statistics). If not specified, all vertices are used.

 -nsmooth  specifies the number of smoothing iterations before 
 statistics are computed; N=60 roughly corresponds to a surface 
 based Gaussian kernel of size 6mm. If not specified, no 
 smoothing is performed.

 -surf_name  is the template surface (can be any surface of 
 the template subject, named 1000 in this example). 
 This option is required.

 -src_type   means the same as in mri_surf2surf or 
 mris_thickness_diff.

 -out_name  stores the standard deviation map of the input 
 thickness difference maps. This option is required.

 -absmean  stores the absolute average map of the input 
 thickness difference maps.

 -mean  stores the average map of the input thickness 
 difference maps.

 -absstd  stores the standard deviation map of the absolute 
 differences.

 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh  refers to 
 the list of .mgh files created in a prior step that are to be 
 used as input for this step. If those files are stored under 
 the same directory, you can indeed use 
 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh instead of listing 
 each individual file explicitly, or 
 1*_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh.  Note: this assumes 
 the subject id's begin with 1.

The statistical maps can be displayed on the template subject's 
surfaces, which can be used to visualize the spatially varying 
pattern of the thickness measurement variability.


=== Output of 'mris_surface_stats -help' ===

unknown option -help
Usage: /usr/local/freesurfer/bin/mris_surface_stats [options] <data1> ... <dataN>

This program computes the group-wise mean and std of the 
thickness differences at every vertex of the template surface.

Options include:

 -nsmooth %d     specify number of smoothing steps
 -surf_name %s   set the surface filename
 -mask_name %s   set the filename for surface mask 
 -out_name %s    set the output filename (std of data)
 -mean %s        set the output filename for mean
 -absmean %s     set the output filename for abs-mean
 -absstd %s      set the output filename for std-of-abs-mean 
 -zscore %s      set the output filename for zscore
                 (only if first_group_size > 0) 
 -first_group_size %d:   specify how many subjects in the 
                         beginning belong to first group 
 -src_type %s    input surface data format (default = paint) 
 -trg_type %s    output format (default = paint) 
 -debug %d       specify which surface vertex number to debug

Example:

  mris_surface_stats -mask some_mask.label \
    -nsmooth $N \
    -surf_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/1000/surf/${hemi}.white \
    -src_type paint \
    -out_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_std_${N}.mgh \
    -absmean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absmean_${N}.mgh \
    -mean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_mean_${N}.mgh \
    -absstd $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absstd_${N}.mgh \
    $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh

This command computes the mean and std of both the signed and 
unsigned thickness differences and outputs the results to 
different files as specified by the different options. The user 
can define the hemisphere ${hemi}$, and the number of smoothing
iterations $N applied to the input difference maps. The other 
options are:

 -mask  specifies a surface mask, where vertices within the 
 mask will be excluded in all the computation (smoothing and 
 statistics). If not specified, all vertices are used.

 -nsmooth  specifies the number of smoothing iterations before 
 statistics are computed; N=60 roughly corresponds to a surface 
 based Gaussian kernel of size 6mm. If not specified, no 
 smoothing is performed.

 -surf_name  is the template surface (can be any surface of 
 the template subject, named 1000 in this example). 
 This option is required.

 -src_type   means the same as in mri_surf2surf or 
 mris_thickness_diff.

 -out_name  stores the standard deviation map of the input 
 thickness difference maps. This option is required.

 -absmean  stores the absolute average map of the input 
 thickness difference maps.

 -mean  stores the average map of the input thickness 
 difference maps.

 -absstd  stores the standard deviation map of the absolute 
 differences.

 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh  refers to 
 the list of .mgh files created in a prior step that are to be 
 used as input for this step. If those files are stored under 
 the same directory, you can indeed use 
 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh instead of listing 
 each individual file explicitly, or 
 1*_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh.  Note: this assumes 
 the subject id's begin with 1.

The statistical maps can be displayed on the template subject's 
surfaces, which can be used to visualize the spatially varying 
pattern of the thickness measurement variability.


=== Output of 'mris_surface_stats' (no arguments) ===

Usage: /usr/local/freesurfer/bin/mris_surface_stats [options] <data1> ... <dataN>

This program computes the group-wise mean and std of the 
thickness differences at every vertex of the template surface.

Options include:

 -nsmooth %d     specify number of smoothing steps
 -surf_name %s   set the surface filename
 -mask_name %s   set the filename for surface mask 
 -out_name %s    set the output filename (std of data)
 -mean %s        set the output filename for mean
 -absmean %s     set the output filename for abs-mean
 -absstd %s      set the output filename for std-of-abs-mean 
 -zscore %s      set the output filename for zscore
                 (only if first_group_size > 0) 
 -first_group_size %d:   specify how many subjects in the 
                         beginning belong to first group 
 -src_type %s    input surface data format (default = paint) 
 -trg_type %s    output format (default = paint) 
 -debug %d       specify which surface vertex number to debug

Example:

  mris_surface_stats -mask some_mask.label \
    -nsmooth $N \
    -surf_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/1000/surf/${hemi}.white \
    -src_type paint \
    -out_name $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_std_${N}.mgh \
    -absmean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absmean_${N}.mgh \
    -mean $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_mean_${N}.mgh \
    -absstd $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/${hemi}_absstd_${N}.mgh \
    $SUBJECTS_DIR/groupstudy/1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh

This command computes the mean and std of both the signed and 
unsigned thickness differences and outputs the results to 
different files as specified by the different options. The user 
can define the hemisphere ${hemi}$, and the number of smoothing
iterations $N applied to the input difference maps. The other 
options are:

 -mask  specifies a surface mask, where vertices within the 
 mask will be excluded in all the computation (smoothing and 
 statistics). If not specified, all vertices are used.

 -nsmooth  specifies the number of smoothing iterations before 
 statistics are computed; N=60 roughly corresponds to a surface 
 based Gaussian kernel of size 6mm. If not specified, no 
 smoothing is performed.

 -surf_name  is the template surface (can be any surface of 
 the template subject, named 1000 in this example). 
 This option is required.

 -src_type   means the same as in mri_surf2surf or 
 mris_thickness_diff.

 -out_name  stores the standard deviation map of the input 
 thickness difference maps. This option is required.

 -absmean  stores the absolute average map of the input 
 thickness difference maps.

 -mean  stores the average map of the input thickness 
 difference maps.

 -absstd  stores the standard deviation map of the absolute 
 differences.

 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled_to_1001.mgh  refers to 
 the list of .mgh files created in a prior step that are to be 
 used as input for this step. If those files are stored under 
 the same directory, you can indeed use 
 1???_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh instead of listing 
 each individual file explicitly, or 
 1*_${hemi}_thickness_diff_resampled.mgh.  Note: this assumes 
 the subject id's begin with 1.

The statistical maps can be displayed on the template subject's 
surfaces, which can be used to visualize the spatially varying 
pattern of the thickness measurement variability.

