
=== Output of 'post-recon-all --help' ===


post-recon-all subject
 --no-subfields, --subfields (default is to do them)
 --no-subregions, --subregions (default is to do them)
 --cvs, --no-cvs : run CVS. Default is NOT to run CVS
 --no-qcache, --qcache : run qcache (default is to run)
   qcache will fail for longitudinal 
 --no-sclimbic : do not run sclimbic
 --no-hthsu : do not run hypothalamic subunits
 --no-synthstrip : do not run synthstrip
 --no-synthseg : do not run synthseg
 --no-qastats : do not run qastats
 --no-samseg : do not run samseg
 --no-xhemi : do not run xhemi
 --threads nthreads (or setenv FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS)
 --force : force rerunning even if output is newer tha input
 --exit-on-error : exit immediately if an error occurs

$Id$

This script runs programs that are (usually) not part of recon-all or
are typically run after recon-all has completely finished (including
editing). Originally, this script was meant for testing these other
modules, but it can be used for production too.  It runs several
programs, including subfield segs (hippo/amyg, thalamus, brainstem),
GTM seg, samseg, xhemi, qcache, synthseg, synthstrip, sclimbic,
hypothalamic subfield segmentation. CVS is not run by default because
it requires so many resources for so long; but it can be run by adding
--cvs.

subfields vs subregions. subregions runs the python script
segment_subregions whereas subfields runs the (old) matlab-based
routines. Both run thalamus, hippo/amyg, and brainstem.

The number of threads is set with --threads or by setting the
FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS env var OMP_NUM_THREADS is set to the value of
FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS.

By default, it will not rerun a command if the output is newer than
the input; this can be turned off with --force. The exception is
qcache which will be run regardless (unless --no-qcache), although
qcache itself will not rerun some items if the output is newer than
the input.

If a module exits with error, the script does not exit right away. It
continues and runs all spcified modules. But once all modules are
finished, it will exit with non-zero status if one or more of the
modules had an error. A file called
subjects/scripts/post-recon-all.$module.hardfailure.txt will be
created for each hard failure.

If --exit-on-error is specified, then it will exit immediately if a 
module has an error.

By default, all commands are run from a CentOS7 container at
/cluster/batch/IMAGES/centos7run. This is unique to the Martinos
Center and will fail on outside computers. To turn this off and
use the native os, add --no-cos7.

This script can be run by itself or it can be run inside recon-all by
adding "-termscript post-recon-all" to the recon-all command
line. Note that no post-recon-all arguments can be specified when
running inside recon-all (eg, no way to turn off cos7)



=== Output of 'post-recon-all -help' ===


post-recon-all subject
 --no-subfields, --subfields (default is to do them)
 --no-subregions, --subregions (default is to do them)
 --cvs, --no-cvs : run CVS. Default is NOT to run CVS
 --no-qcache, --qcache : run qcache (default is to run)
   qcache will fail for longitudinal 
 --no-sclimbic : do not run sclimbic
 --no-hthsu : do not run hypothalamic subunits
 --no-synthstrip : do not run synthstrip
 --no-synthseg : do not run synthseg
 --no-qastats : do not run qastats
 --no-samseg : do not run samseg
 --no-xhemi : do not run xhemi
 --threads nthreads (or setenv FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS)
 --force : force rerunning even if output is newer tha input
 --exit-on-error : exit immediately if an error occurs

$Id$

This script runs programs that are (usually) not part of recon-all or
are typically run after recon-all has completely finished (including
editing). Originally, this script was meant for testing these other
modules, but it can be used for production too.  It runs several
programs, including subfield segs (hippo/amyg, thalamus, brainstem),
GTM seg, samseg, xhemi, qcache, synthseg, synthstrip, sclimbic,
hypothalamic subfield segmentation. CVS is not run by default because
it requires so many resources for so long; but it can be run by adding
--cvs.

subfields vs subregions. subregions runs the python script
segment_subregions whereas subfields runs the (old) matlab-based
routines. Both run thalamus, hippo/amyg, and brainstem.

The number of threads is set with --threads or by setting the
FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS env var OMP_NUM_THREADS is set to the value of
FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS.

By default, it will not rerun a command if the output is newer than
the input; this can be turned off with --force. The exception is
qcache which will be run regardless (unless --no-qcache), although
qcache itself will not rerun some items if the output is newer than
the input.

If a module exits with error, the script does not exit right away. It
continues and runs all spcified modules. But once all modules are
finished, it will exit with non-zero status if one or more of the
modules had an error. A file called
subjects/scripts/post-recon-all.$module.hardfailure.txt will be
created for each hard failure.

If --exit-on-error is specified, then it will exit immediately if a 
module has an error.

By default, all commands are run from a CentOS7 container at
/cluster/batch/IMAGES/centos7run. This is unique to the Martinos
Center and will fail on outside computers. To turn this off and
use the native os, add --no-cos7.

This script can be run by itself or it can be run inside recon-all by
adding "-termscript post-recon-all" to the recon-all command
line. Note that no post-recon-all arguments can be specified when
running inside recon-all (eg, no way to turn off cos7)



=== Output of 'post-recon-all' (no arguments) ===


post-recon-all subject
 --no-subfields, --subfields (default is to do them)
 --no-subregions, --subregions (default is to do them)
 --cvs, --no-cvs : run CVS. Default is NOT to run CVS
 --no-qcache, --qcache : run qcache (default is to run)
   qcache will fail for longitudinal 
 --no-sclimbic : do not run sclimbic
 --no-hthsu : do not run hypothalamic subunits
 --no-synthstrip : do not run synthstrip
 --no-synthseg : do not run synthseg
 --no-qastats : do not run qastats
 --no-samseg : do not run samseg
 --no-xhemi : do not run xhemi
 --threads nthreads (or setenv FS_OMP_NUM_THREADS)
 --force : force rerunning even if output is newer tha input
 --exit-on-error : exit immediately if an error occurs

