
=== Output of 'surfreg --help' ===


surfreg

  --s subject : subject to register
  --t target  : average subject to use as a target
  --xhemi     : for performing cross-hemi registration

  --lh : only reg lh (default for --xhemi)
  --rh : only reg rh
  --lhrh : reg both lh and rh (default when not using --xhemi)
  --no-annot  : do not use annot to rip (default is aparc.annot)
  --annot annotname : uses label/hemi.annotname (rips medial)
      NOTE: using an annot is not currently the default in recon-all
  --aparc : sets annotname to aparc.annot (default)
  --noneg 
  --init-reg initregname : default is sphere (do not include hemi)
  --lta reg.lta : apply rotational components of affine reg
  --init-from-tal : use talaiach.xfm.lta to init spherical reg
  --o outsurfname : default is target.sphere.reg (do not include hemi)
      If target is fsaverage, then default is sphere.reg
  --no-set-vol-geom : do not set volume geometry and center the sphere
  --threads threads : run in parallel

surfreg 7.4.1

Performs surface registration (mris_register) between a subject and a
target average subject based on the hemi.reg.template.tif atlas in the
average subject. The source surface is subject/surf/hemi.sphere
unless changed with --init-reg. 

Creates hemi.target.sphere.reg (unless changed with --o) in the
subject/surf dir. If --xhemi is used, then the subject name is
replaced with subject/xhemi. If this directrory is not there, then
xhemireg is run on the subject. If --xhemi is NOT used, then both
hemispheres are registered by default.  If --xhemi IS used, then only
the left hemispheres is registered by default (can be changed by
adding --rh or --lhrh AFTER --xhemi). If the output already exists,
then it throws an error.


=== Output of 'surfreg -help' ===


surfreg

  --s subject : subject to register
  --t target  : average subject to use as a target
  --xhemi     : for performing cross-hemi registration

  --lh : only reg lh (default for --xhemi)
  --rh : only reg rh
  --lhrh : reg both lh and rh (default when not using --xhemi)
  --no-annot  : do not use annot to rip (default is aparc.annot)
  --annot annotname : uses label/hemi.annotname (rips medial)
      NOTE: using an annot is not currently the default in recon-all
  --aparc : sets annotname to aparc.annot (default)
  --noneg 
  --init-reg initregname : default is sphere (do not include hemi)
  --lta reg.lta : apply rotational components of affine reg
  --init-from-tal : use talaiach.xfm.lta to init spherical reg
  --o outsurfname : default is target.sphere.reg (do not include hemi)
      If target is fsaverage, then default is sphere.reg
  --no-set-vol-geom : do not set volume geometry and center the sphere
  --threads threads : run in parallel

surfreg 7.4.1

Performs surface registration (mris_register) between a subject and a
target average subject based on the hemi.reg.template.tif atlas in the
average subject. The source surface is subject/surf/hemi.sphere
unless changed with --init-reg. 

Creates hemi.target.sphere.reg (unless changed with --o) in the
subject/surf dir. If --xhemi is used, then the subject name is
replaced with subject/xhemi. If this directrory is not there, then
xhemireg is run on the subject. If --xhemi is NOT used, then both
hemispheres are registered by default.  If --xhemi IS used, then only
the left hemispheres is registered by default (can be changed by
adding --rh or --lhrh AFTER --xhemi). If the output already exists,
then it throws an error.


=== Output of 'surfreg' (no arguments) ===


surfreg

  --s subject : subject to register
  --t target  : average subject to use as a target
  --xhemi     : for performing cross-hemi registration

  --lh : only reg lh (default for --xhemi)
  --rh : only reg rh
  --lhrh : reg both lh and rh (default when not using --xhemi)
  --no-annot  : do not use annot to rip (default is aparc.annot)
  --annot annotname : uses label/hemi.annotname (rips medial)
      NOTE: using an annot is not currently the default in recon-all
  --aparc : sets annotname to aparc.annot (default)
  --noneg 
  --init-reg initregname : default is sphere (do not include hemi)
  --lta reg.lta : apply rotational components of affine reg
  --init-from-tal : use talaiach.xfm.lta to init spherical reg
  --o outsurfname : default is target.sphere.reg (do not include hemi)
      If target is fsaverage, then default is sphere.reg
  --no-set-vol-geom : do not set volume geometry and center the sphere
  --threads threads : run in parallel

