
=== Output of '@afni_refacer_run --help' ===

** unexpected option #1 = '--help'

=== Output of '@afni_refacer_run -help' ===


OVERVIEW ~1~

This script re-faces one input dataset, using a master shell dataset to
write over the subject's 'face' region.

The main input is the name of a T1-weighted dataset.

ver = 2.4

OUTPUTS ~1~

When running with '-mode_all', then 5 datasets will be output, all in
the same space as the input volume:

    + Three refaced/defaced volumes:
      1) a "defaced" volume (face+ears replaced with zeros)
      2) a "refaced" volume (face+ears replaced with artificial values) 
      3) a "reface_plused" volume (face+ears+skull replaced with artificial
         values)

    + Two face-replacing volumes:
      4) the face+ears used to replace or remove subject data
      5) the face+ears+skull used to replace subject data

Automatic images of the re/defaced volume(s) will be created with
@chauffeur_afni, so the user can quickly evaluate results visually.

A temporary working directory is also created.  This will be cleaned
(=deleted) by default, but the user can choose to save it.

USAGE ~1~

  @afni_refacer_run                         \
    -input  DSET                            \
    -mode_{reface|reface_plus|deface|all}   \
    -prefix PPP                             \
    {-anonymize_output}                     \
    {-cost CC}                              \
    {-overwrite}                            \
    {-no_clean}                             \
    {-no_images}                            \
    {-verb_allin}      

where:

 -input DSET  : (req) name of input dset; can contain path information.

     ... and one of the following modes MUST be chosen:
 -mode_deface : replace the computed face+ears voxels with all zeros
                instead of the artificial face (ears are also removed)
 -mode_reface : replace the subject's face+ears with a scaled set of
                artificial values
 -mode_reface_plus : replace the subject's face+ears+skull with a scaled
                set of artificial values (i.e., like 'refacing', but
                replacing a more complete shell around the subject's
                brain)
 -mode_all    : output three volumes: one defaced, one refaced and one
                reface_plused

 -prefix PPP  : (req) name of output dset (see NOTES for info about
                about file names, particularly when "-mode_all" is used).

 -anonymize_output : (opt) use 3drefit and nifti_tool to anonymize the
                output dsets.  **But always verify anonymization
                yourself, Dear User!** This will not be able to help
                you if you choose a non-anonymizing output file name,
                for example.

 -cost CC     : (opt) can specify any cost function that is allowed by 
                3dAllineate (def: lpa)
 
 -shell SH    : (opt) can specify which shell to use.  At present, the 
                available options for SH are:
                  afni_refacer_shell_sym_1.0.nii.gz  (traditional)
                  afni_refacer_shell_sym_2.0.nii.gz  (more face/neck removal)
                (def: afni_refacer_shell_sym_1.0.nii.gz)

 -no_clean    : (opt) don't delete temp working dir (def: remove working
                dir)

 -no_images   : (opt) don't make pretty images to automatically view the 
                results of re/defacing;  but why wouldn't you want those?
                This disables use of Xvfb.

 -overwrite   : (opt) final two file outputs will overwrite any existing
                files of the same name (def: don't do this).  NB: this 
                option does not apply to the working directory

 -verb_allin  : (opt) run the 3dAllineate part herein with '-verb' (for
                verbosity)

NOTES ~1~

Output file names ~2~

If the user implements one of the individual modes for either
refacing, reface_plusing or defacing, then the main output file of
interest is simply specified by their "-prefix .." choice.
Additionally, the the replacement volume in subject space will be
output, with the same name plus a suffix (either 'face' or
'face_plus').

Elif the user implements '-mode_all', then three output volumes are
created, each with the same prefix specified by their "-prefix .."
choice, with identifying suffixes and *.nii.gz extensions:  
    PREFIX.deface.nii.gz 
    PREFIX.reface.nii.gz
    PREFIX.reface_plus.nii.gz
Additionally, both replacement volumes will be output, having the
same prefix and relevant suffix:
    PREFIX.face.nii.gz 
    PREFIX.face_plus.nii.gz 

A directory of QC images will be made by default, called:
    PREFIX_QC/
This will contain images of each of the new anatomical volumes and the
replacement volumes over the original anatomical.

Requisite data sets ~2~

This script relies on having two datasets that should already be
included with AFNI binaries:
    MNI152_2009_template_SSW.nii.gz  = MNI skull strip/warp template
    afni_refacer_shell_sym_*.nii.gz  = dataset to replace face region
The latter dataset(s) have been made by a combination of the
@afni_refacer_make_master and @afni_refacer_make_master_addendum 
scripts.

If you are missing these datasets for some reason (e.g., you build
your own AFNI binaries on your computer), you can download these from
the current/atlases directory.  Or just ask for more info on the
Message Board.


Author   - The Face of Imperial Zhark, Who is Terrible to Behold!
Modifier - PA Taylor

EXAMPLES ~1~

1) default refacing (replace face+ears+skull+etc.)

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_reface_plus                 \
        -prefix anat_reface_plus.nii.gz
    
2) reface smaller volume (replace face+ears only)

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_reface                      \
        -prefix anat_reface.nii.gz

3) deface = replace face+ears with zeros

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_deface                      \
        -prefix anat_deface.nii.gz

3) ALL = output all versions of vol: refaced, reface_plused, defaced

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_all                         \
        -prefix anat

4) ... and using different shell for replacement:

    @afni_refacer_run                             \
        -input anat+orig.                         \
        -mode_all                                 \
        -shell afni_refacer_shell_sym_2.0.nii.gz  \
        -prefix anat


=== Output of '@afni_refacer_run' (no arguments) ===


OVERVIEW ~1~

This script re-faces one input dataset, using a master shell dataset to
write over the subject's 'face' region.

The main input is the name of a T1-weighted dataset.

ver = 2.4

OUTPUTS ~1~

When running with '-mode_all', then 5 datasets will be output, all in
the same space as the input volume:

    + Three refaced/defaced volumes:
      1) a "defaced" volume (face+ears replaced with zeros)
      2) a "refaced" volume (face+ears replaced with artificial values) 
      3) a "reface_plused" volume (face+ears+skull replaced with artificial
         values)

    + Two face-replacing volumes:
      4) the face+ears used to replace or remove subject data
      5) the face+ears+skull used to replace subject data

Automatic images of the re/defaced volume(s) will be created with
@chauffeur_afni, so the user can quickly evaluate results visually.

A temporary working directory is also created.  This will be cleaned
(=deleted) by default, but the user can choose to save it.

USAGE ~1~

  @afni_refacer_run                         \
    -input  DSET                            \
    -mode_{reface|reface_plus|deface|all}   \
    -prefix PPP                             \
    {-anonymize_output}                     \
    {-cost CC}                              \
    {-overwrite}                            \
    {-no_clean}                             \
    {-no_images}                            \
    {-verb_allin}      

where:

 -input DSET  : (req) name of input dset; can contain path information.

     ... and one of the following modes MUST be chosen:
 -mode_deface : replace the computed face+ears voxels with all zeros
                instead of the artificial face (ears are also removed)
 -mode_reface : replace the subject's face+ears with a scaled set of
                artificial values
 -mode_reface_plus : replace the subject's face+ears+skull with a scaled
                set of artificial values (i.e., like 'refacing', but
                replacing a more complete shell around the subject's
                brain)
 -mode_all    : output three volumes: one defaced, one refaced and one
                reface_plused

 -prefix PPP  : (req) name of output dset (see NOTES for info about
                about file names, particularly when "-mode_all" is used).

 -anonymize_output : (opt) use 3drefit and nifti_tool to anonymize the
                output dsets.  **But always verify anonymization
                yourself, Dear User!** This will not be able to help
                you if you choose a non-anonymizing output file name,
                for example.

 -cost CC     : (opt) can specify any cost function that is allowed by 
                3dAllineate (def: lpa)
 
 -shell SH    : (opt) can specify which shell to use.  At present, the 
                available options for SH are:
                  afni_refacer_shell_sym_1.0.nii.gz  (traditional)
                  afni_refacer_shell_sym_2.0.nii.gz  (more face/neck removal)
                (def: afni_refacer_shell_sym_1.0.nii.gz)

 -no_clean    : (opt) don't delete temp working dir (def: remove working
                dir)

 -no_images   : (opt) don't make pretty images to automatically view the 
                results of re/defacing;  but why wouldn't you want those?
                This disables use of Xvfb.

 -overwrite   : (opt) final two file outputs will overwrite any existing
                files of the same name (def: don't do this).  NB: this 
                option does not apply to the working directory

 -verb_allin  : (opt) run the 3dAllineate part herein with '-verb' (for
                verbosity)

NOTES ~1~

Output file names ~2~

If the user implements one of the individual modes for either
refacing, reface_plusing or defacing, then the main output file of
interest is simply specified by their "-prefix .." choice.
Additionally, the the replacement volume in subject space will be
output, with the same name plus a suffix (either 'face' or
'face_plus').

Elif the user implements '-mode_all', then three output volumes are
created, each with the same prefix specified by their "-prefix .."
choice, with identifying suffixes and *.nii.gz extensions:  
    PREFIX.deface.nii.gz 
    PREFIX.reface.nii.gz
    PREFIX.reface_plus.nii.gz
Additionally, both replacement volumes will be output, having the
same prefix and relevant suffix:
    PREFIX.face.nii.gz 
    PREFIX.face_plus.nii.gz 

A directory of QC images will be made by default, called:
    PREFIX_QC/
This will contain images of each of the new anatomical volumes and the
replacement volumes over the original anatomical.

Requisite data sets ~2~

This script relies on having two datasets that should already be
included with AFNI binaries:
    MNI152_2009_template_SSW.nii.gz  = MNI skull strip/warp template
    afni_refacer_shell_sym_*.nii.gz  = dataset to replace face region
The latter dataset(s) have been made by a combination of the
@afni_refacer_make_master and @afni_refacer_make_master_addendum 
scripts.

If you are missing these datasets for some reason (e.g., you build
your own AFNI binaries on your computer), you can download these from
the current/atlases directory.  Or just ask for more info on the
Message Board.


Author   - The Face of Imperial Zhark, Who is Terrible to Behold!
Modifier - PA Taylor

EXAMPLES ~1~

1) default refacing (replace face+ears+skull+etc.)

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_reface_plus                 \
        -prefix anat_reface_plus.nii.gz
    
2) reface smaller volume (replace face+ears only)

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_reface                      \
        -prefix anat_reface.nii.gz

3) deface = replace face+ears with zeros

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_deface                      \
        -prefix anat_deface.nii.gz

3) ALL = output all versions of vol: refaced, reface_plused, defaced

    @afni_refacer_run                     \
        -input anat+orig.                 \
        -mode_all                         \
        -prefix anat

4) ... and using different shell for replacement:

    @afni_refacer_run                             \
        -input anat+orig.                         \
        -mode_all                                 \
        -shell afni_refacer_shell_sym_2.0.nii.gz  \
        -prefix anat

