
=== Output of 'adjunct_middle_pair_mask --help' ===



** ERROR: unexpected option #1 = '--help'



=== Output of 'adjunct_middle_pair_mask -help' ===


Overview ~1~

This is an adjunct program to find 2 points within a mask that are
centered along the AP and IS axes for a mask/input dset, and then one
is also centered in the "left half" and one centered in the "right
half".

This is primarily meant to be used for APQC HTML creation for ORIG or
TLRC datasets without recognized seed locations.

The locations are found by first running 3dAutobox on the input, which
is expected to be a mask by default. If the input is not a mask, users
can also use the '-automask' option to automask it.  After that, each
output point is found in each half of the autoboxed input using '3dCM
-Icent ...'.  The output is two sets of three numbers, the coordinates
in question.

Users can use '-prefix ..' to save the results to a text file, or they
could redirect the output with '... > FILE.txt'.

auth : PA Taylor (SSCC, NIMH, NIH, USA)
ver  : 0.8
date : April 22, 2024

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Options ~1~

-input    III      :(req) input dset, which can be a mask or a dset  

-prefix   PPP      :output the two lines of 3 coords each to a text file

-automask          :use this to run 3dAutomask on the input, *if* the 
                    input is not a mask already

-restrict_mask RM :add in another mask as a constraint, which the two
                    points must also fall within. This RM dset need
                    not be on the same grid as the input III dset
                    (resampling will happen internally).
                    Using this opt can lead to complicated logic if
                    there is poor overlap between this and the
                    input. If this doesn't overlap with one of the
                    intermediate hemispheres of the input, then the
                    output points might both be in the same apparent
                    hemisphere. And if there is no overlap between
                    this restrictor and the input, you will get two
                    sets of null coords: (0 0 0). But that will be
                    your own fault.

-overwrite         :flag to turn on overwriting of prior existing file
                    if '-prefix ..' is used

-verb              :spit out a bit of extra text info about calcs. 
                    NB: if you use this opt, then you won't want to try to
                    get the seed-based coordinates by redirecting 
                    output to a file with '>' but instead would need
                    to use '-prefix ..' for that.

-no_num_out        :do not report the two coordinates in the terminal output
                    (stdout). Probably this means you are using '-prefix ..'
                    to save the output results.

-echo              :run this script with '-e' opt, to echo every line before
                    it is executed (so, very verbose output)

-workdir  WWW      :provide a name of a temporary working directory.
                    NB: no path should be included in it; it will be placed
                    into the output directory location
                     
-no_clean          :if a workdir is used, then this opt turns off 
                    removing it (def: remove working dir)

-ver               :display program version

-help, -h          :display this help (soooo meta)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Examples ~1~

1) simple case, just input a mask:
    adjunct_middle_pair_mask                                \
        -input  mask_epi_anat.sub-001+tlrc.HEAD

2) input a template, automask it and get two points that are also 
   constrained to be in a secondary mask:
    adjunct_middle_pair_mask                                \
        -input            MNI152_2009_template_SSW.nii.gz   \
        -automask                                           \
        -restrictor_mask  mask_epi_anat.sub-001+tlrc.HEAD


=== Output of 'adjunct_middle_pair_mask' (no arguments) ===


Overview ~1~

This is an adjunct program to find 2 points within a mask that are
centered along the AP and IS axes for a mask/input dset, and then one
is also centered in the "left half" and one centered in the "right
half".

This is primarily meant to be used for APQC HTML creation for ORIG or
TLRC datasets without recognized seed locations.

The locations are found by first running 3dAutobox on the input, which
is expected to be a mask by default. If the input is not a mask, users
can also use the '-automask' option to automask it.  After that, each
output point is found in each half of the autoboxed input using '3dCM
-Icent ...'.  The output is two sets of three numbers, the coordinates
in question.

Users can use '-prefix ..' to save the results to a text file, or they
could redirect the output with '... > FILE.txt'.

auth : PA Taylor (SSCC, NIMH, NIH, USA)
ver  : 0.8
date : April 22, 2024

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Options ~1~

-input    III      :(req) input dset, which can be a mask or a dset  

-prefix   PPP      :output the two lines of 3 coords each to a text file

-automask          :use this to run 3dAutomask on the input, *if* the 
                    input is not a mask already

-restrict_mask RM :add in another mask as a constraint, which the two
                    points must also fall within. This RM dset need
                    not be on the same grid as the input III dset
                    (resampling will happen internally).
                    Using this opt can lead to complicated logic if
                    there is poor overlap between this and the
                    input. If this doesn't overlap with one of the
                    intermediate hemispheres of the input, then the
                    output points might both be in the same apparent
                    hemisphere. And if there is no overlap between
                    this restrictor and the input, you will get two
                    sets of null coords: (0 0 0). But that will be
                    your own fault.

-overwrite         :flag to turn on overwriting of prior existing file
                    if '-prefix ..' is used

-verb              :spit out a bit of extra text info about calcs. 
                    NB: if you use this opt, then you won't want to try to
                    get the seed-based coordinates by redirecting 
                    output to a file with '>' but instead would need
                    to use '-prefix ..' for that.

-no_num_out        :do not report the two coordinates in the terminal output
                    (stdout). Probably this means you are using '-prefix ..'
                    to save the output results.

-echo              :run this script with '-e' opt, to echo every line before
                    it is executed (so, very verbose output)

-workdir  WWW      :provide a name of a temporary working directory.
                    NB: no path should be included in it; it will be placed
                    into the output directory location
                     
-no_clean          :if a workdir is used, then this opt turns off 
                    removing it (def: remove working dir)

-ver               :display program version

-help, -h          :display this help (soooo meta)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Examples ~1~

1) simple case, just input a mask:
    adjunct_middle_pair_mask                                \
        -input  mask_epi_anat.sub-001+tlrc.HEAD

2) input a template, automask it and get two points that are also 
   constrained to be in a secondary mask:
    adjunct_middle_pair_mask                                \
        -input            MNI152_2009_template_SSW.nii.gz   \
        -automask                                           \
        -restrictor_mask  mask_epi_anat.sub-001+tlrc.HEAD

